#labels in_progress
<wiki:toc>

={{{@RootElement}}}= 

==Using==
{{{@RootElement}}} is used to map a root class to a root XML element. Root class is a class at the top of the object hierarchy (not class/inheritance hierarchy).

==attribute: name===
Name attribute defines the name of the root XML element to which this class will be mapped. Allowed forms are: {{{@Element("element-name")}}}, {{{@Element(name="element-name")}}} or {{{@Element(value="element-name")}}}.
If name is not defined, i.e. just plain {{{@Element}}} is used, than the XML element name will be derived from class name:
{{{
@RootElement
class Root{
  .. 
}
}}}
In this case class {{{Root}}} will be mapped to the XML element of the same name: {{{<root>}}}.

==attribute: converter==
Converter attribute is used to override usual converter selection.
Normally a converter is selected based on the field type, unless converter attribute is defined. Class defined as converter must extend either {{{ValueConverter}}} or {{{ElementConverter}}}.
{{{
@RootElement(converter=MyCustomConverter.class)
class Root{
}
}}}

= {{{@Attribute}}} = 
==Using==
{{{@Attribute}}} is used to define mapping between a class field and a XML attribute.

==attribute: defaultValue===
Default value is an optional attribute. If defined, it used when XML attribute is missing. Default value does not apply when attribute is empty ({{{attr=""}}}) In this case empty value is passed to converter. Most built-in converters will throw an exception in this situation.

==attribute: targetType==
Target type is used to decide which converter will be used. Target type 

==attribute: converter==
==attribute: format==

= {{{@Attributes}}} = 


= {{{@Element}}} = 



= {{{@Elements}}} = 



= {{{@Text}}} = 


= {{{@Namespaces}}} =